---
layout: post
title: on blogs
date: 2024-07-17 00:08:04
description: because everything needs to start somewhere
tags: thoughts
categories: meta
---

**tl;dr: I have a blog! I'm excited about it, and I welcome your crticism. I will tag each post with a short description, and I'll write a tl;dr like this one.**

-- to share, and that is what I'd like this blog to represent. 

I feel excited, certainly, at the thought of speaking my thoughts into the void, armed only with the hope that someone is listening. It is a bit daunting, to think that the words I put on here can be read by anyone and everyone. It is a certain bearing of the soul that constitutes blogging in-depth, though there's a spectrum for that as well. This depends on what is yet uncertain-- what kind of blog will this be?

The space of options is vast, bounded only by creative vision and ambition. It may be a blog for philosophical ramblings, or political commentary, perhaps even media critique. My page may give home to technical tutorials, expository mathematics, or whatever field has caught my interest that particular month. I may even try to sell you on intuitionistic logic. 

The language may be flowery, or brusque. It might be a little nonsensical at times; this is as much a space for me to release some creative energy as it is a space for me to write beneficial content (more on that later). I may feel a little embarrased sometimes, you may feel a little embarrased sometimes, it's all part of discourse on the internet. I will always welcome criticism-- constructive or not, though I do prefer it to be. Of course, I can't stop you from being destructive, harsh, or downright abusive. The modern internet feels very sanitized, and I'm not entirely sure that is a good thing for the quality of our conversations-- the fake quote "It is the mark of an educated mind to entertain a thought without accepting it" is often attributed to Aristotle, but I think there is something to be said for the essence of it. One might say, "It is the mark of beneficial conversation to be able to discuss an idea without agreeing with it," and I might be inclined to agree with them.

All that being said, *What is my blogging philosophy?*

Well, I believe a blog is something that we both invest time into; myself to write it and yourself to read it. With the vast range of blog posts, you are likely to find some useful and others less so. It's impossible to flag posts with such precision that every reader can tell exactly what posts they will find useful, but I still believe in the value of being up-front with what you're likely to get out of reading a post on my blog. To that end, I'll tag each post with a one-phrase descriptor of what it is. I would probably still do this even if I were not making this post, but hey, this is the place to write down things like this.

Heck, I'll even start each post with a tl;dr, so you can get the main ideas and leave if you want. Life is short, and words are never as interesting as the ideas they try to convey.



thoughts
- unsure of how to even start
- what will my first line say about me?
- what does my approach to blogging say about me?
- what *is* my approach to blogging?
- revised: *what is my blogging philosophy?*
- the obvious answer seems to be: my blog should benefit my readers in some way (after all, they're putting in the time to read it)
- caveat: i also want to be able to just write my thoughts down
- solution: signpost what posts exist to be beneficial and what posts exist for my sake. you might still get something out of these, but they will fundamentally be about *me and my thoughts*. hence, I'll be calling them *thoughts*
- the posts that i will write to benefit you will be categorized *beneficial*. these will be defined as those posts which i intend to be beneficial from the get-go
- in the middle, we'll have posts that bring the two together: non-technical, yet me still talking about my work, creative or technical. these will be called *for us*. this blog is as much a place for us to meet as for me to shout my thoughts into the void
- i can make use of tags/categories to separate these out, once i figure out how they work.

general tags i feel i will make posts including:
- math
- code
- life
- creative (split further if needed)


There is much to discover, to learn, to create, and --